# EMiTS - an Example for Renewable Energy Expansion

The [Jupyter notebook](https://github.com/terranexum/EMiTS/blob/main/EMiTS_Example_1.ipynb) in this folder can be run for free on Google Colab. It is in progress; our intent was to demonstrate how EMiTS could be used to improve the speed and scale of grassroots, community-level renewable energy expansion efforts.

Cities are responsible for 70% of greenhouse gas emissions on average, but suburban areas offer more space for renewable energy installations such as rooftop solar. The city of Denver has a [goal of reaching 40% emissions reductions by 2025](https://github.com/terranexum/EMiTS/tree/main/Implementations/Denver2025). Instead of waiting for new transmission lines and long permitting and construction processes to occur, we are investigating whether portable energy storage transported into cities and back during daily commutes can make a difference in helping cities reach their sustainability goals even faster. 

It may be that any complex networked system supporting a flow of something (whether energy or mass, to include information as a special case) can have those flows expressed in terms of EMiTS. Doing so provides a means for the system to optimize itself through its own dynamics. 

## Another Example

Say that a company like Amazon wants to use that energy to move a 10 kg package across 200 km to a customer. They should charge that customer 10 x 200 = 2000 units (M x S), divided by whatever the energy was that was required to ship the package. This energy quantity is minimally what was purchased from the energy provider. Only time has not been addressed - for time, if the customer wants their item in 1 day instead of 3 days, the time variable in the denominator would be 1 instead of a 3. Which results in a 3x increase in the cost that the customer will be asked to pay. Optimization will then occur in the direction of maximizing future value. Such optimization takes place as we build new technologies that can yield faster deliveries of heavier items with the lowest amount of energy used.